DOCS-5607-jms-publish-consume-example-kt (#1360)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: jms/1.7/modules/ROOT/pages/jms-publish-consume-example.adoc

> = Publish and Consume Messages within Flows Example - Mule 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Publish and Consume Messages Within Flows Example - Mule 4
```

> The following example illustrates how to configure Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) *Publish consume* operation to publish and consume messages within two flows, and uses a correlation id to ensure that the incoming messages are the proper reply of the outgoing message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example illustrates how to configure Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) *Publish consume* operation to publish and consume messages within two flows, and use a correlation ID to ensure that the incoming messages are the correct replies for the outgoing message.
```

> The following example illustrates how to configure Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) *Publish consume* operation to publish and consume messages within two flows, and uses a correlation ID to ensure that the incoming messages are the proper reply of the outgoing message.

Reviewer: ...the...operation
```suggestion
The following example illustrates how to configure the Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) *Publish consume* operation to publish and consume messages using two flows and a correlation ID to ensure that incoming messages are replies to a specific outgoing message.
```

Reviewer: Having now seen the entire topic set, I am backtracking here with a question: 
Would it be just as effective but simpler to use the text above as an introduction to the graphic, and then...

- Show the graphic
- Follow the graphic with some brief statement about how the two flows manage message traffic between them based on how you create and configure them.
- Provide prerequisites to creating the two flows.
- Create Flow 1.
- Create Flow 2.
I felt like I was getting bogged down trying to envision the movement when the actions in the graphic came BEFORE it.
And when I realized that the tasks to create the two flows followed all of that, I wondered if the actions needed describing at such depth, considering that steps in creating the flow cover some of that?
It feels like this is documented backwards. With illustrations like this (which I am imagining because I can't see it), I typically see a very brief intro to the graphic, the graphic itself, and THEN an explanation of the graphic.
And for this graphic, we are illustrating flows that haven't even been created yet.
Stuff to think about.
You can implement only the suggested copyedits and rewordings, and consider reorganizing when you have more time. But I think this chronology bears reconsideration.

> 

Reviewer: I suggest moving the graphic to this location, and following it with an ordered list or a legend based on numbers in the graphic, identifying the movements within and between the two flows.

* In the first flow, an *HTTP Listener* source initiates the flow by reading random content posted via HTTP.

> * Then, the *Publish consume* operation publishes a message to a destination queue (`Q1`) with the content payload received from the HTTP Listener source.

Reviewer: You won't need "Then," when you use an ordered list:
```suggestion
* The *Publish consume* operation publishes a message to a destination queue (`Q1`), containing the content payload received from the HTTP Listener source.
```

> * Subsequently, in the second flow, an *On New Message* source listens for the message sent to the queue `Q1` set in the first flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the second flow, an *On New Message* source listens for the message sent to `Q1` in the first flow.
```

Reviewer: But it seems to me that there is a step missing here: 

- Flow 2 listens for the message sent to Q1.
- [Flow 2 receives the message sent to Q1?]
- Flow 2 publishes the message in Q2.

So maybe...:
```suggestion
* In the second flow, an *On New Message* source listens for and receives the message sent to `Q1` in the first flow.
```

> * Then, in the second flow a *Publish* operation publishes the message into a new destination queue (`Q2`) with a correlation ID attribute, so the request and reply messages are correlated within the two flows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Still in the second flow, a *Publish* operation publishes the message in a new destination queue (`Q2`) with a correlation ID attribute that correlates the request and reply messages within the two flows.
```

> * Again in the first flow, the *Publish consume* operation consumes the message sent to the queue `Q2` that matches the correlation iD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Back in the first flow, the *Publish consume* operation consumes the message in `Q2` that matches the correlation ID.
```

> * Finally, a *Set Payload* component returns the value `It Works!`.

Reviewer: Is this still back in the first flow?

To test this example, you must:

. Have a Docker instance of ActiveMQ broker.

> . Create two queues `Q1` and `Q2` with the ActiveMQ broker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create two queues, `Q1` and `Q2`, using the ActiveMQ broker.
```

> . Create the Mule application.

Reviewer: More specifically...:
```suggestion
. Create a Mule application that includes two flows.
```

> . Run and test the application with curl commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Run and test the application using `curl` commands.
```

> To install a Docker instance of ActiveMQ broker and how to create the queues, follow their respective documentation guidelines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install a Docker instance of ActiveMQ broker and create the queues, follow the respective documentation guidelines.
```

.Publish Consume within Flows in Studio
image::jms-publishconsume-flow.png[Both Publish consume flows in the canvas view of Anypoint Studio]

== Create the First Flow

> To start creating your Mule application, create the first flow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start creating your Mule application to publish and consume messages, create the first flow:
```

. In Studio, in the *Mule Palette* view, select *HTTP > Listener*.
. Drag the HTTP *Listener* source to the Studio canvas.
. On the *HTTP Listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.
. Set the *Path* field to `/test`
. Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of HTTP Listener in the app.
. On the *General* tab, set the following parameters:
+
* *Host*: `All Interfaces [0.0.0.0] (default)`
* *Port*: `8081`
+
. Click *OK*.
. Drag the *Publish consume* operation to the right of HTTP Listener.

> . Click the plus sign (*+*) next to the *Connector configuration* field to configure a global element that can be used by all instances of Publish consume in the app.

Reviewer: "the *Publish consume* operation?

. Set the *Connection* field to *ActiveMQ Connection*.
. In the *Required Libraries* section, click *Configure...* to install the dependencies.

> . Set the *Specification*, *Caching strategy* fields to their default values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Set the *Specification* and *Caching strategy* fields to their default values.
```

Reviewer: Yep

> . Set both the *Username* field and *Password* field to `admin`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Set both the *Username* field and *Password* fields to `admin`.
```

Reviewer: I think she meant this:
```suggestion
. Set both the *Username* and *Password* fields to `admin`.
```

> . Set the *Factory configuration* to *Edit inline*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set *Factory configuration* to *Edit inline*.
```

. Set the *Broker url* field to `tcp://localhost:61616`.
. Click *OK*.

> . In the *Publish consume > General* section, set the *Destination* field to `Q1` to create the queue to publish the message with the payload content of the HTTP Listener.

Reviewer: Here's an example of a step that begins to explain how the two queues and two operations (publish and consume) work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Publish consume > General* section, set the *Destination* field to `Q1` to create the first of the two queues, this one to publish the message that contains the payload of the HTTP Listener.
```

> . In the *Message* section, set the *Correlation ID* to `0303456`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. For this example, in the *Message* section, set *Correlation ID* to `0303456`.
```

. Set the *Reply To* field to *Edit inline*.
. Set the *Destination Name* field to `Q2`. +

> This is the destination queue that will be used to consume the message sent by the Publish operation in the second flow.

Reviewer: Parallel to the step to create Q1...:
```suggestion
. Set the *Destination Name* field to `Q2` to create the second of the two queues, this one to consume the message sent by the *Publish* operation in the second flow.
```

> . In the *Consume Configuration* section, set the *Ack mode* field to *IMMEDIATE*.

Reviewer: Does this step directly introduce the image that follows it? If so, end with a colon:
```suggestion
. In the *Consume Configuration* section, set the *Ack mode* field to *IMMEDIATE*:
```

.Publish Consume operation configuration
image::jms-publishconsume-operation.png[Publish Consume operation configuration in Anypoint Studio]

[start=22]

> . Drag a *Set Payload* component to the right of Publish consume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag a *Set Payload* component to the right of *Publish consume*.
```

. Set the *Value* field to `It Works!`.

== Create the Second Flow

Continue creating the application by adding the second flow:

. Drag a JMS *On New Message* source below the first flow.

> . Repeat steps 9 through 16 from the previous section to create a global element for the source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Repeat Steps 9 through 16 of creating the first flow, to create a global element for the source.
```
NOTE that naming these steps sets up a difficult to maintain dependency between two tasks, should anything in the first task change....

> . In the *On New Message* configuration screen, set the *Destination* field to `Q1`. +

Reviewer: Line 31 uses "in" the screen....

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *On New Message* configuration screen, set the *Destination* field to `Q1` to indicate that the source is listening to the destination set in the *Publish consume* operation of the first flow.
```

> This indicates that the source is listening to the destination set in the Publish consume operation of the first flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

. Drag the JMS *Publish* operation to the right of the source.

> . Set the *Connector configuration* to the same configuration you set for the *On New Message* source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set *Connector configuration* to the same configuration you set for the *On New Message* source.
```

. Set the *Destination* field to `Q2`. +

> This indicates that the message is published to the destination queue of the Publish consume operation of the first flow.

Reviewer: ditto combination:
```suggestion
. Set the *Destination* field to `Q2` to indicate that the message is published to the destination queue of the *Publish consume* operation of the first flow.
```

> . In the *Message* section, set the *Correlation ID* field to `attributes.headers.correlationId`, so the request and reply messages are correlated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Message* section, set the *Correlation ID* field to `attributes.headers.correlationId` to correlate the request and reply messages.
```

> == Run and Test your Mule Application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Run and Test Your Mule Application
```

After creating your Mule application, run and test it:

. In Studio, save your Mule app.
. Click the project name in *Package Explorer* and then click *Run* > *Run As* > *Mule Application*.
. Open a browser and type `+http://0.0.0.0:8081/test+`. +

> == XML for Publishing and Consuming within Flows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== XML for Publishing and Consuming Within Flows
```
